so this segment I call keeping it in the
pocket and really it's it's about the
groove I start off by playing something
I've actually set up set up a delay on
the with my pedal so that I've got even
though it doesn't sound like it when I
stopped when I just picked the note that
when I stopped playing the groove it's
one two three one two three one two
three one it's like setting up a triplet
feel and that kind of builds in the
groove - - when I'm playing without the
delay on it will i'd have to i'd have to
actually kind of physically play those
triplets but it's one two three one two
three it's like a shuffle field and that
keeping it in the pocket keeping
consistent to the groove and and having
a delay like that is kind of cool
because it gives you a kind of
mechanical way of keeping it consistent
but but just keeping that groove going
so that if I'm I'm playing let's say you
know let's say a reggae thing let's
smooth out the sound a bit and really my
machine there is my right hand
alright let's say I've got a jazz feel
going on again it's it's the mechanical
part of it is what the right hand is
doing and there's all the the harmonic
information and you notice here that
what I'm doing is is using those kinds
of three note chords so like a a G major
7 G sharp diminished a minor 7 a sharp
diminished G over b e7 sharp nine eight
- seven D seven D seven sharp nine
augmented but it's all coming from the
engine is coming from the right hand and
and also from the gut from just feeling
that momentum and staying with the
momentum and not trying to break it up
with anything unnecessary you know and
sometimes the role of the rhythm guitar
might be nothing more than you know
then let's say you know in a let's say
when
you go to country waltz and some yeah
there's an acoustic guitar playing and
it might be one two one two one two one
two one two you know so the it's a
rhythm part but it's not a consistent
rhythm part it's an accented part three
one two three or it might be one two
three one but whatever it is it's it's
placing an accent in a place where it's
adding information to the overall
texture you know in a rock context let's
say let me get some some some crank
and in rock in particular you get what I
call rhythm riffs which is where where
there's a rhythm guitar part but it kind
of builds a riff into it so that it
becomes the driving force of the song I
mean and you see I'm using the the right
hand mutes the left hand choke and
throwing it throwing in some single
lines two single notes just you know to
create part of the texture because
otherwise yeah I could do that in
Achtung
but it gets a little sick if I put a
chord in there
and so these things all kind of work
together to keep things in it in a
stylistically appropriate place so that
you're not only just keeping the groove
going but you're actually you know kind
of subscribing to that particular genre
and I think it's a really important part
of what we do as rhythm players to to
pay attention to those kinds of details
the you know the different factors of
style of groove tempo articulation
voicing the harmonic density of it the
tonal density of it you know the fact of
using a tone like that maybe you know
kind of gets to woman e to woman Toni
might be cool for a lead thing
but for rhythm stuff it might kind of
turn a little too muddy so so you want
to stay in a tonal area that's gonna you
can stay low on the guitar but but be
able to cut through too so this all I
think gives you some idea of the concept
of keeping it in the groove keeping it
in the pocket subscribing to all those
ingredients that make it work as a
musical and as a guitarist ik
Sensibility